---
layout: page
title: Open positions
summary: Open positions and theses
featured-img: openppl
---

* [PhD position](#phd-and-postdoc-position)
* [Postdoc position](#phd-and-postdoc-position)
* [Master and bachelor theses](#master-and-bachelor-theses)


### PhD and Postdoc position

**PhD student and postdoctoral researcher in neuroscience**

Applications are invited for one PhD student and one postdoctoral researcher in neuroscience, at the University of Bern. The research focus will be on studying the neural and computational mechanisms underlying the generation of sensory predictions. To this aim, the employed student and postdoc will design computational models of learning and will combine those with electrophysiological recordings in humans to investigate predictive processes in the auditory modality, in wakefulness and sleep.

Our group is using scalp and intracranial electroencephalography -EEG- recordings, machine learning and computational modeling techniques, as well as single-unit measurements in humans. The positions will be based at the Institute for Computer Science and Faculty of Medicine at the University of Bern in Switzerland, under the supervision of Athina Tzovara.
Requirements for the postdoc position:

#### Requirements for the PhD position:

We are looking for candidates with a PhD in neuroscience, biomedical engineering, computer science, or a related discipline. Experience with computational modeling, analyzing scalp or intracranial electrophysiological data, and programming in Python or R are a big plus.

#### Requirements for the PhD position:

Candidates should have a master in neuroscience, biology, biomedical engineering, or a related discipline. Experience with EEG data, as well as programming skills in Python, R or Matlab are highly desirable.

#### What we offer:

We are offering access to scalp and intracranial EEG recordings in an interdisciplinary and international research environment. Funding for these positions is available for 3 years according to Swiss National Science Foundation regulations.

#### How to apply:

Applications will be accepted until the positions are filled. The first review of applications will begin on 25th November 2019. If you are interested, please send one pdf-document including your CV, a brief statement of research interests, and the contact details of two referees to:

[Athina Tzovara](https://ccneuro.github.io/atzovara/): athina.tzovara@inf.unibe.ch 

Informal inquiries are welcome.


### Master and Bachelor theses

**Master or Bachelor thesis: Neural correlates of predictive processes in the human brain**

In our daily lives we are constantly immersed in streams of sensory information. Very often
these do not occur in a random way but follow repetitive rules and patterns. The human brain
possesses astonishing capacities of detecting patterns from the environment and predicting
future events before these occur even when conscious access to the environment is reduced, e.g.
during sleep. Predictive traces manifest in multiple stages of information processing, but it still remains unknown how they are modulated
by conscious perception of the environment.
The goal of this thesis is to study the neural mechanisms underlying the generation of
sensory predictions during sleep and wakefulness. To this aim, we will perform
electroencephalography (EEG) recordings in healthy volunteers, in awake and asleep
conditions, while presenting them with sound sequences, following regular or irregular
patterns.
We are looking for a master or bachelor student to help us perform overnight EEG recordings at
Inselspital and assist with data analysis.


**The thesis includes partly experimental work, and party data processing.**

For more infomration please contact [Athina Tzovara](https://ccneuro.github.io/atzovara/): athina.tzovara@inf.unibe.ch 
